# DVC-Intro

## Introduction


**DVC (Data Verification and Computation) mode** is a workflow in which Primus uses **zkTLS** to verify the correctness and authenticity of HTTPS requests and responses by **proving the encrypted TLS transcript directly**, without executing any business logic itself.
In this mode, Primus is responsible only for data verification, while **all actual computation is delegated to external zkVMs**, which consume the verified data and execute the business logic independently.


## Components


* **Dapp**: An application built by developers using the **Primus Network SDK**.
* **[Primus Network SDK](https://docs.primuslabs.xyz/primus-network/build-with-primus/overview)**: A toolkit that helps developers integrate the zkTLS protocol into their applications.
* **[Primus Network](https://docs.primuslabs.xyz/primus-network/understand-primus-network)**: The foundational layer of the zkTLS protocol, providing decentralized security and robustness while enabling data verification and monetization.
* **Verification Program**: Composed of two programs running inside a TEE:
  * **Primus zkTLS Verification Program**: A standard Rust program provided by Primus. Running in a TEE and zkVM environment, it cryptographically verifies attestation signatures, validates data source URLs and responses, and extracts response payloads.
  * **Business Rust Program**: A developer-built Rust application running in a TEE + zkVM environment. It receives zkTLS attestations generated by the Dapp and performs domain-specific business logic.


## Workflow


```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor dapp as Dapp <br/> [Primus SDK]
    box Primus Network
      participant contract as Contract
      participant attestor as Attestor Nodes
    end
    box Verification Program <br/> (TEE + zkTLS)
      participant business as Business Program
      participant zktls as Primus zkTLS Program
    end

    par
      Note over dapp, attestor: 1. Do zkTLS with Primus Network
    
      dapp ->> contract: submit task
      contract-->>dapp: return task info <br/> (taskId, attestors)

      dapp ->> attestor: attest <br/> (taskId, attestors, request, responseResolves, ...)
      attestor-->>dapp: return attestation data <br/> (attestation, signature, txHash, ...)

      dapp -->> dapp: extract plain response <br/> locally via SDK
    end

    par
      Note over dapp, zktls: 2. Do prove with zkVM (inside TEE)

      dapp ->> business: do prove <br/> (attestation data, plain response)
      business ->> zktls: verify attestation
      zktls -->> business: Ok or failed

      business ->> zktls: extract JSON field
      zktls -->> business: JSON value

      business ->> business: run business verification logic
      business -->> dapp: return proof
    end
```


## Do zkTLS with Primus Network

### 1. Task Submission

Your Dapp first submits a task to the **Primus Network**. The network returns:

* a **task ID**, and
* a list of **attestors**, the compute nodes assigned to perform zkTLS.

### 2. Attestation Execution

Your Dapp performs the zkTLS protocol collaboratively with the attestor node in the Primus Network. The attestor completes the protocol and returns:

* an **attestation**,
* its **signature**,
* and additional metadata such as `txHash`.


### 3. Private Data Extraction

Using the Primus SDK locally, the Dapp extracts the **plaintext response** — without sending anything back to the network.


## Do Proving with zkVM

Next, the Dapp sends  the **attestation** and the **plaintext response** to the **Verification Program** running inside a TEE (with zkVM).

Inside the TEE (with zkVM):

1. The **Business Program** calls the **Primus zkTLS Verification Program** to verifies:

   * the attestation signature,
   * the source URL,
   * and the correctness of the response.
2. Upon successful verification, the Business Program:

   * extracts the required JSON fields,
   * and performs its own domain-specific business logic.
3. Finally, the zkVM returns a proof back to the Dapp.


## Try the Full Workflow with the Demo

A complete [demo](https://github.com/primus-labs/DVC-Demo) is available for you to try the entire workflow end-to-end.
